Do you know that according to Goldman Sachs research, Meal kit delivery service is worth around $2.2 billion and still growing?
The reason for such growth is believed to be the handiness it provides to the amateurs in cooking. 
What is a Meal Kit delivery app?
Basically, Meal kit delivery services are delivery services in which you get the ingredient needed for making a specific recipe. You will get the perfect portion of the vegetables and proteins with the exact measurement of spices and oils. 
SEE ALSO: Starting Your Online Grocery Delivery App
All you have to do is cook the meal according to the guidelines given in the delivery box. Hence, whether you are a cooking pro or a newbie you can cook the delectable food without any hassle.
Top Meal Kit Delivery Apps Examples:
Blue Apron
Hello Fresh
Home chef
Sun Basket
Plated
What is Blue Apron?
Blue Apron is a leader company in Meal kit delivery service and has around 40.3% market share. It allows people to experiment with dishes and come up with eclectic meals just by following step by step information given in the delivery box.
What Is the Pricing Model of the App like Blue Apron?
As per the report of the CNBC’s trial run of meal delivery services, these meals cost $9.99 to $13. 50 a portion. So it is cheaper for people who don’t want to go to restaurants. Because restaurants cost you higher for the same amount of meal.
Plus the ingredient and list are specially made by the experienced cook so there is no doubt that the meal prepared using this would be tasty or not.
Coming to the point the ingredient if you would directly go to the food retailer would cost you $3.98 to $11.90 which is a little higher than the food you make at your home after shopping. 
This clearly implies that these services get the double-digit margin for the meal kit delivery firms at least for ingredients. Therefore due to this profit margin, big players of the industry are knowing the doors of the meal kit delivery market.
What Blue Apron’s Alternatives Are Doing?
In August 2017 Amazon too announced its own meal kit delivery service. The company tested its new service in limited people for Amazon fresh customers, in Seattle. 
They offer 17 different meals for these selected customers to choose from and the price for that ranges from $14.99 to $18.99 for a two-person meal. Which is low as compared to Blue Apron.
Amazon doesn’t require customers to subscribe for weekly meal kits, unlike Hello Fresh and Blue Apron, but instead offer one-time purchase options.
On the other hand, Walmart also launched their meal kits delivery after Amazon and Blue Apron. They offer about 30 meal kits with the plus point being that Walmart sends you the kitchenware you require to make the meal. 
On average, it charges range from somewhere around $32 to $79 for a meal for four. It had tied up with Takeout kit and Home chef both of which are responsible for full-filling the orders and shipping them to customer’s doorstep. At the same time Walmart gets the commission and a referral fee as per the street.
How to Start an App like Blue Apron?
These are just another example of the popularity of the on-demand delivery system but this is unique.
If you are entrepreneur then you must start a meal kit delivery business like a blue apron. 
The Minimum viable product involves apps which generally involves:
l An ordering app- Placing an order occurs at the app or website interface where the menu of the meal kit provider will be uploaded.
l A delivery app- When the order is placed the courier are logged into their delivery app which tracks their location. Once the order is received delivery person will decide whether or not they’ll be able to fulfill the order. And the first driver to claim the delivery carries on with it.
l A management Dashboard: To manage and control your critical operation you need a dashboard.
How Much Would It Cost to Build an App like Blue Apron?
Well, the general cost of the project on online food delivery is not the total cost. There are other elements as well which need to be considered. 
So to build an online meal kit app you will require around 460-520 hours. And the cost of application would be range around $14k to $26k depending the which platform are you planning to build your app hybrid or native.
Conclusion 
